- One of those features that really got me
excited with Spring 5.0 is the ability
to have immutable objects, especially in your web APIs.
As a security-minded developer, immutability
within your object stack is always a great thing.
In more than security, when you're looking
at encapsulating objects, especially those
DTO objects, this is a really, really good thing.
So many people like to protect their DTOs,
myself included, and immutability gives us
the ability to do that.
Well, this has always kind of been impossible
with Spring MVC because it had to have
a nullable constructor in order to do its work.
Now, thank you to Kotlin and Lombok we now
have a driver to make this possible,
and with Spring 5.0 we get it.
Now just a quick overview of why
this is important before we look at the code.
This gives us the ability to have protection
of our objects.
It also gives us a way to prevent application
state from changing unexpectedly.
Once I create an object, it's done, that's it,
and that's really the value of immutability
and it allows us to have much stronger contracts
because no one can change those objects unexpectedly.
So let's take a look at this in code.
We're going to load up our application.
Now there's a couple things that we need to do
before we can get started, and that's just
because some of the tooling that exists out there
doesn't yet support HTTP2.
So we actually need to go turn off all of our HTTP2.
So I'm just going to comment out all of those properties.
I don't really want to get rid of 'em.
We may use 'em later.
And now that that's done, let's open up source
main java and enter main package here.
We are going to create a new class file
and we're going to call that class president.
To our president we're going to add a Lombok
annotation called at value.
Now this is another one of those things
that I may be a great feature of IntelliJ
Ultimate Edition that your IDE doesn't have.
IntelliJ Ultimate Edition actually fully supports
Lombok out of the box.
Check with your IDE provider and see if it's available.
It may not be and you may have to rely just on
having errors in your IDE that actually get
resolved at compilation time.
Some of the value of Lombok is that I don't
actually have to play getters and setters.
So I'm going to go ahead and put a couple
attributes here, the first being an integer
of name ID.
The second being a string of first name.
And the last one being a string of last name.
And that's it.
The add value annotation's actually going to give
me a constructor that takes all
of those arguments and getters but no setters on this class.
Let's go ahead and close that down and we're
going to create another new class, and this one
we are going to call president controller.
And then to our president controller we are going
to add a rest controller annotation as well
as a request mapping annotation.
And now we are going to create an internal
memory store, so a list of president objects.
Call this presidents, set it equal to a new array list.
This is just so we have somewhere to put our stuff later on.
We're going to set a post mapping
and on that post mapping we will return
a president object, but we are going to add a president.
We will take a request body of type president
and we will simply do a presidents dot add,
add our president, and then return him.
Now I'm going to make one more quick change here.
I'm actually going to remove my push controller
'cause I don't want that push handler to get
in the way now that we've actually turned off HTTP20.
And we'll start up our application.
We'll let it start up here.
Now, prior to having the support for immutability
what I'm about to show you would've never worked.
It actually would've failed and said that it
didn't have a default constructor.
Let's jump over to a terminal window.
So we're going to use the curl command here,
dash x post at local host 8080 slash presidents
dash h with a content type application slash json.
We're going to do a dash d, open curly brace,
ID one, first name J-E-O-R-G-E, last name Washington.
Then that out and we'll go ahead and hit return.
And we got a response back.
And that response came from the actual server.
So we're going to do an HTTP action,
and this the HTTPIE tool that I use.
If you don't have it, you can do a similar
action with curl or you can install this.
It's totally up to you.
We're going to do a post at local host 8080 slash presidents.
We're going to set our ID equal to one, our first
name equal to George, then our last name
equal to Washington.
And we're going to set that to verbose.
So what you'll see here is we actually did a post
over it should be one, one, with a first name
ID and last name.
And then we got that response back out
which is what we would expect, but most
importantly we got a 200 out.
Now the interesting thing here is if you'd done
this prior to version 5.0 of Spring, again
it would've failed because it didn't actually
have a constructor that it could call.
But we now have that, so we now have an immutable
object in our application that we could call
through the web API.